(whooshing)
All right, now what we're going to do is
we're going to make a function that will check
if somebody has a specific permission,
and I'm just gonna put those all
on a single object called permissions,
and then each permission will be its own function.
So we'll say export const permissions,
and that's an object.
Now, inside of that object, we will...
Let's look at like one of our fields here.
We've got canmanageproducts, right?
So what we'll do here is
we'll make a method called canmanageproducts
that will take in the session.
And then basically we just need to check
that they have this in their role.
So we'll basically say return.
We won't basically, we're gonna actually do it,
no basic about it.
(laughing)
We're gonna turn if the session.roll, oh no, .data.role
.canmanageproducts.
So that is either going to be true or false.
And then we're returning that.
So a couple of things that we need to do here
is first of all, it's possible that there is no session.
So we'll put a question mark on that.
And that will, if it's, there's no session, it will return.
Then it's also possible
that that user does not have a role assigned yet.
So we'll put a question mark on that as well.
And that should be up and running.
Now, if we go to our next one,
I can see other users.
You can just copy, paste, get this, paste it in.
All right, next one, duplicate it.
You see where we're going with this?
We've got to do it again.
Oh my gosh.
Okay, duplicate it.
Okay, well, no we're not gonna write
every single one again, right?
That's annoying, so, rather than
having to write a checker function
for every single product in there,
there's kind of like two,
there's two ways that you can go about this.
Initially, when I wrote this, I was like,
so I thought let's just make like a can function
that takes in a permission.
But we're not actually gonna do this, so don't write it
but it'll take in a permission.
And then from that, we return another function,
that returns
session.data.role,
and then square bracket permission.
And what that will do is it will take in a string permission
and check if that property is on the user's role
and that will return true or false.
So that would actually work.
But the downside to doing this is that you don't
get the nice IntelliSense typing.
You don't get the nice I can.
You type M and it's like, did you mean canmanageproducts?
So instead of having it that way,
where it's statically done with the string, we will
just generate these functions once
for every single permission field that we have.
And remember that we have exported
this permissions list right here,
which is all the keys canmanagecart,
canmanageroles, et cetera, et cetera.
So what we'll do here is right above
we'll say const generated permissions,
is equal to we'll say
object.from entries.
object.from entries,
what it will do is it will take
an array of
a key and a value.
So watch, if you do like this object.from entries
if the first property is
let's call it name
and the second property is wes,
it will return an object where name and oh,
you got to return an array of arrays.
Sorry, so try that, watch.
Boom. There we go.
And if we had multiple properties, we could
the second array could be like age,
is 101, you get the point, right?
It will take an array of key values,
and make an object from it.
So what we'll do here is we'll run that,
and then we'll take our permissions list,
and we'll map over it.
And we'll say for each permission,
return an array where the key is going to be the permission,
and the value is going to be a function
that takes in the session,
which we can type that right now.
Uh, right here, list, access, arcs...
And then from that function, we return the session
if there is one, the data, the role if this person has one,
and then we will programmatically access
the value here.
So it is permission and that permission variable
is going to be equal to, again
I know you're probably sick of me saying this but
it will be equal to each of these that we have here.
Finally, we were, we'll just coerce that
into a true Boolean.
So we'll put two bangs in front of it,
and we are up and running.
Then we can take those generated permissions
and spread them into this
so we don't need to manually type each of these now.
We will simply spread them into there,
and the reason why I'm spreading them in,
is because I wanna show you that you can additionally,
in addition to having all of these permissions
you can also add your own.
So if you wanted to make a additional permission
called isawesome, you could do that.
That isawesome we'll take in the session
with a type of list access arcs.
And then from there, we will say
if the session
.data.name.includes("wes")
return, true
they are awesome.
Otherwise we return false,
and we can even go a little step further and
simply just say this.
We can just return the value of this
'cause that will return a Boolean.
So is return, boom,
get rid of all that.
And this is just an example of being able to add
an additional permission function
on top of all the ones that have been generated
'cause sometimes there is the ability to add
in additional ones that is not in the UI.
So now we have our permissions in place which is,
let's write a little comment there,
permissions check.
If somebody meets a criteria yes or no,
so more than likely it's going to be,
do they have that permission
in the role of their currently logged in user?
And now what we're gonna get into
is rule-based functions.
And we'll pick that up in the next video,
but these allow us to be a little bit more flexible,
with different rules, as well as who owns an item.